LIFE OF SAINT AUGUSTINE 1³9

13. To be sure there are those who believe that when the
bishops and clergy do not flee arnid such dangcrs but remain,
they deceive the people, since the people do not flee because
they see their bishops remaining. But it is easy to avoid this
accusation or reproach by speaking to the people and saying:
‘Be not deceived because we do not llee lrorn this place. For
we are remaining here not lor our own sakes but rather for
yours that we may not fail to provide you with whatever we
know to be needlul lor your salvation which is in Christ. Il,
therefore, you wish to flee you will lree us from the bonds by
which we are held! This Ι think should be said when it seems
truly expedient to withdraw to places of greater safety. And
when such words have been heard and all or some shall have
said: ‘We are in His power whose wrath no one escapes‚
wheresoever he may go, and whose mercy he can find, where-
soever he may be who does not wish to go elsewhere, whether
prevented by certain obligations or unwilling to seek places ol
uncertain refuge, thus not ending but merely transfering the
dangers,'-surely they must not be lorsaken by the Christian
ministry. But if the people prefer to leave when they have
heard this, the ministers are not bound to stay who were re·
maining on their account, because there are no longer any
persons there for whose sake they ought still to remain.

14. Accordingly, whoever flees under such circumstances
that the necessary ministry of the Church is not lacking bc-
cause of his flight, does as the Lord commands or pennits.
But whoever so flees that he deprives the flock of Christ ol
that nourislnnent lrorn which it has its spiritual lile, is an
hireling who sees the wolf coming and flees because he cares
not lor the sheep.

These things, since Ι believe them, my brother most bc-

loved, have I written to you in truth and love unleigncd be·

 

