‘ urs os srnrvr Aucusrrrvs ιη

were not led by divine authority, but were deceived by human
error or constrained by sear.

6. For why do they think they should without discrimination
obey the command which they read to flee from city to city,
and do not tremble at the parable of the hireling who sees the
wolf coming and flees because he cares not lor the sheep?
Why do they not endeavor so to understand these two con·
sistent teachings of the iord—the one, indeed, where ssight is
permitted or even commanded, the other where it is denounced
and censured—that they be discovered not to be contrary to
each other, as, in fact, they are not? And how shall this be
discovered unless attention be given to that which I have dis-
cussed above, namely, that we ministers of Christ, under the
stress of persecution, should fiee from the places in which we
are only when there are no Christians there to whom to min-
ister, or when the necessary duties of the ministry can be per-
formed by others who have not the same reason for flight-as
the Apostle fied, let down in a basket, as I have mentioned
above, when he alone was sought out by the persecutor while
the others did not have any such need for ssight, so that the
services of the ministry were not withdrawn there nor the
churches abandoned ; as the holy Athanasius, Bishop of Alex-
andria, fled when the Emperor Constantius desired to appre-
hend him alone, while the Catholic people who remained in
Alexandria were by no means deserted by the other ministers.
But when the people remain and the ministers flee and the

service of the ministry is withdrawn, what will thisbe but
that damnable flight of hirelings who care not lor the sheep?
For the wolf shall corne, not a man, but the Devil, who has
very frequently induced the faithful to apostatize who were
deprived of the daily ministry of the Lord’s body; and not

 

